Dear Kaya,

I never meant to hurt you. I'm sorry I did. I see now that I wanted
a level of closeness that wasn't fair to expect.

What has always been true is that I was sincere. 
I've always been honest, and cared for you deeply.
But my fear of abandonment, and my idealization of you, turned into
pressure I put on you without realizing it. That's something I've
learned from, and won't repeat.

    <!--I would focus on specific moments rather than absolutisms or generalizations.-->

In my need for security, I idealized our bond as something it's not.
A bond where I could be my rawest self.
An unconditional friendship where instead of trust, we had faith
in each other. Because we'd seen each other's truth.
A cure to my insecurity. Proof I'd never be abandoned again.

    <!--"as something it's not" - this disqualifies the positives and is
        overgeneralizing. Although there might be components of the 
        relationship that were misunderstood, I don't think the 
        entirety of the relationship was based on these things.
        There are aspects of this that could have and can still be true.
        Framing it like this implies this is no longer true, which doesn't
        provide the other person room for input as well.-->

But after we slept together, things changed.
I pushed for more intimacy.
And I think both of our past hurts shifted how we saw each other.
Where I saw myself as conflicted, you saw signs of deceit.
When I clawed for safety, you braced for danger.

    <!--"you saw signs of deceit/you braced for danger"
        I would avoid naming Kaya's internal responses,
        these may be percieved as mindreading. Although
        Kaya mentioned feeling these things in her text,
        it might be more helpful to focus more on your 
        experience and avoid misinterpretations of blame.-->

When you distanced yourself without a word,
I piled on more affection to compensate for my fear.
More checking in. Involving you in silly errands.
Little gifts. Too much pressure.

    <!--I wonder if we can invite empathy by focusing on
        how you felt rather than actions. The current
        phrasing, while accurate, places the focus on
        actions rather than your experience of it that is
        what you are trying to convey. Using feeling words
        and "I statements" could help here.-->

I wish we had asked each other what we needed.
If you had told me you needed space, I would have respected it.
    <!--This sounds accusatory.-->
If I had asked you why our conversations became so guarded,
I could start to dismantle my illusion.
But instead I lashed out in fear and anger.
And you lashed out in response.
    <!--probably something more specificity here than 'lashing out'.-->
I understand now that you weren't invested in me
the same way I was in you.
But that doesn't make what we shared less meaningful.
You still gave me so much.

    <!--When it comes to the line about not being invested, 
        that sounds like you are assuming intentions. A more 
        compassionate way to phrase this could be, "I'm now 
        starting to understand that what our connection meant 
        to you was different from what it meant to me."-->

You introduced me to every last one of your friends.
We shared wild excitement.
You saw some of my deepest wounds.
You encouraged me to be brave.
And, for a while, you saw me as myself, as I truly am.
    <!--don't think you need 'for a while' here-->
For the first time in my life, someone saw me as Evie.
You even gave me that name.
You gave me permission to live.

Kaya, you have brought so much beauty to my life.
You've changed me forever, not just through memories,
but by allowing me to be true.

Now, I can love you as you are. Not as an ideal,
not as a bond you never asked to carry, but as Kaya.
A person who brought joy and laughter to my life.
And I don't need more than that anymore.

    <!--I wonder if it's more helpful to frame this as
        something you will be working to do, more active
        voice.-->

Noah, I'm sorry. I know I made mistakes: mixed
messages, words I regret, and even suspicion.
But I never intended to disrespect you.
I respect you. And I want you to be happy together.

Kaya, if there's space left for me in your life, I'd love for us
to find a friendship that's lighter and freer, where we can simply
have fun, without the weight of impossible expectations.
Where every moment is a gift freely given, freely received,
and never imposed.

    <!--"space left for me in your life" - it sounds like
        has implied she is open to talking but later.
        Magnifying the worry that she won't have space for
        you here might feel pressuring to the other person
        while they're asking for space.-->

At last, I feel free. And I hope you do, too, my dearest friend.
Because you deserve that. Because I love you. So, so much.

With my whole heart,

    Evie

PS: I think the hormones are working. Instead of stepping back
like I usually do, I went on a fucking spirit quest to sort
this shit out. I'm gonna eat cheesecake and cry, now.

PPS: I learned a new joke. Two hunters are in the woods when one falls
to the ground, seemingly dead. The other hunter calls 911 and says,
"My friend is dead, what can I do?" The operator replies, "Stay calm.
First, make sure he's dead." There's a moment of silence, then a
gunshot. The hunter comes back on the line: "Okay, now what?"
